Phase 1 – Knowing All About Networking
Date: 06/08/25
Learning Security+

1. What Did I Study Today?
I Learned About Various Network Types and Various Network Topologies their workings, functioons etc.
These Are The Network Types and Topologies 
LAN (Local Area Network) - Covers a small area like an office or building 
WAN (Wide Area Network) - Covers large distance like between cities and countries
WLAN (Wireless Local Area Network) - Wireless version of LAN like WI-FI
SAN (Storage Area Network) - A network focused on storge devices 
CAN (Campus Area Network) - Covers multiple buildings on campus or company site.
MAN (Metropolitan Area Network) - Spans a city or large area less than WAN
PAN (Personal Area Network) - very small networks between devices like bluetooth 
SD-WAN (Software Defined Wide Area Network) - morden way to manage WAN using software instead of traditional hardware
MGRE (Multipoint Generic Routing Encapsulation) - It is a tunneling technology which allows multiple sites to connect trough one tunnel interface.

this is only basic info i am not diving into deapth.

2. Network Topologies 
BUS - devices connected in a row using t - connector. 
RING - its connected in loop. data is forworded from one device to another.
STAR - devices are connected to a center hub or switch.
HUB AND SPOKE - there is only one hub and more spoke. if spoke want to interact with each other then its should go trough hub. 
FULL - MESH - its directly connected to different sites using WAN Links.
PARTIAL - MESH - only selected sites are directly connected others may relay on intermidiate sites

So This all about my learning on day 2

Was is exciting? 

i dont know what to say its not the question you ask a person who finished studying 120 pages of pdf full theory.
well i enjoyed it but its hard to remember its sub parts need to revise it or else it would be a waste right.
yeah i have to give one hour for revision and need to start practical too.

thats it for today. meet you tomorrow bye
and yeah 
thanks for staying with me 

ignore my grammer and sencetance formation i will geadually improve it over time. 
once again thank you for your time 
